
BIOGRAPHY: Matthias Felleisen, a Trustee Professor at Northeastern
University's College of Computer Science, has spent 30 years exploring
programming languages and the pedagogy of software development. After
receiving his PhD at Indiana University in 1987, he launched his academic
career at Rice University; in 2001, he moved to Northeastern.

For the first decade of his career, Felleisen developed a new theoretical
framework for modeling programming languages. Over time, this framework has
provided the most widely used technique for proving type soundness theorems,
the fundamental correctness claims for programming languages. 

In 1995, Felleisen launched two related projects: (1) a K-12 outreach
project with the goal of mutually leveraging mathematics and programming
education and (2) the Racket language design project in support of the
outreach project. Felleisen and his team taught dozens of intensive 5-day
teacher training workshops over 20 years, focusing on program design as
systematic problem solving. Working with Northeastern undergraduates, they
also created the Bootstrap curriculum for middle schools; the curriculum
has been adopted by code.org.  The team's Racket programming language has
become a test bed for language design ideas from mixins to frameworks for
domain-specific languages, from software contracts to gradual typing
systems, and from web programming disciplines to distributed interactions.
It is also used in many applications, from DoD software to Naughty Dog's games.

For his research on programming languages, Felleisen was inducted as an ACM
Fellow in 2006 and received ACM SIGPLAN's Achievement Award in 2012. Also
in 2012, his paper on contracts for higher-order languages was picked as
the most influential ICFP 2002 publication.  Felleisen has delivered
keynote addresses at many programming language conferences, including POPL,
ECOOP, and ICFP.  For his educational outreach, ACM honored Felleisen with
the Karl V. Karlstrom Award in 2010. ACM SIGCSE named Felleisen Outstanding
Educator of the Year in 2011.  In conjunction with the latter, he delivered
the keynote at the annual Symposium on Computer Science Education.

CURRENT RESEARCH PROJECTS and INTERESTS: Felleisen's primary interest is
the development of a comprehensive theory of program design. He and his
group continue to work on a range of programming language problems:
frameworks for developing domain-specific languages, gradual typing
systems, and actor-oriented programming languages.
