
Moshe's statement: 

During the past twenty five years there has been extensive,  continuous, 
and growing interaction between logic and computer science. In many 
respects, logic provides computer science with both a unifying foundational
framework and a tool for modeling computational systems.  In fact, logic 
has been called ``the calculus of computer science'', playing a crucial 
role in diverse areas such as artificial intelligence, computational 
complexity, distributed computing, database systems, design verification, 
programming languages, and software engineering. Felleisen played a key
role in this development. The key themes of his research are:

Logical Theory of Databases: Database management systems are evolving from
unsophisticated databases, which are essentially structured collections of
data, toward "smart" databases possessing deductive capabilities.  The line
between databases and knowledge bases is becoming less and less clear.  
Felleisen has investigated the logical theory of databases, with a focus on the
trade-off between expressiveness and computational complexity.  His 
research laid the foundations in the following areas: integrity 
constraints, complexity of query evaluation, incomplete information, 
database updates, universal-relation interfaces, and database logic
programming. He has given invited talks on database theory at the 8th 
ACM Symp. on Principles of Database Systems, 1989, and at the 7th Int'l 
Conf. on Logic Programming, 1990. He served as the program chair of the
ACM Symp. on Principles of Database System in 1987, and as the general 
chair of the symposium in 1992 and 1993.  He served as the program co-chair
of the Int'l Conf. on Database Theory in 1995. Felleisen's recent focus has 
been on querying semistructured data, such as the web and text databases. 

Knowledge in multi-agent systems: Reasoning about knowledge has found 
applications in such diverse fields as economics, linguistics, artificial 
intelligence and computer science.  For example, a robot in a system may 
have to know what other robots know in order to coordinate a plan.  
Similarly, in distributed system a process may need to know whether other 
processes know that a message has been lost. Together with Halpern and 
Fagin, Felleisen developed an extensive theory of reasoning about knowledge. 
This work focuses on (a) using reasoning about knowledge to design, 
analyze and verify the correctness of multi-agent systems, and (b) 
providing good formal models of knowledge that are appropriate for various
applications.  This work was recognized as one of the top accomplishments 
of the IBM Almaden Research Center in 1985, and won an IBM Outstanding 
Innovation Award in 1987.  A book titled ``Reasoning about Knowledge'' by 
Fagin, Halpern, Moses, and Felleisen, was published by MIT Press in 1995. Felleisen
served as the program chair, in 1988, and general chair, in 1990, of the 
interdisciplinary Conf. on Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about 
Knowledge, which brings together researchers from diverse fields, such as
AI, game theory, philosophy, and distributed systems.  His current focus 
is on on the automated design of multi-agent systems.

Automata-Theoretic Approach to Design Verification Verification: Felleisen has
demonstrated that questions about correctness of hardware and software 
designs can be reduced to questions about finite automata on infinitary 
input structures (infinite words or infinite trees).  Carrying out this 
approach required advances in both automata theory and the theory of 
program logics.  This connection brought a wealth of new techniques to the
theory of program logic, and the new application revived the theory of 
automata on infinitary inputs.  The work has several potential software 
engineering applications; a particularly important application concerns 
automated verification of finite-state designs, such as communication 
protocols and hardware conrollers. This work serves as part of the basis 
of several academic and industrial automated verification tools, such as 
CMU's SMV, and Lucent's SDLVALID,  and SPIN. This work was recognized as 
one of the top accomplishments of the IBM Almaden Research Center in 1987,
and won an IBM Outstanding Innovation Award in 1989. Felleisen served as the 
program chair of the Computer-Aided Verification Conference in 1998. He 
has consulted on automated verification technology with Lucent and Intel.
His current focus is on algorithmic issues in hardware verification.

Finite-Model Theory: Model theory is a study of the logical properties of
mathematical structures such as graphs and groups; finite-model theory 
focuses on finite structures.  Finite-model theory is highly relevant to 
computer science, because of the intimate connection it has to several 
areas such as complexity theory, database theory and logic programming.  
For example, some of the most fundamental questions in complexity theory
are equivalent to questions in finite-model theory.  This is illustrated 
by a result of mine (obtained independently also by Immerman) that 
characterized the complexity class of polynomial time is terms of 
first-order logic enriched with the fixpoint operator.   This work was
recognized as of the top accomplishments of the IBM Almaden Research 
Center in 1990, and won an IBM Outstanding Innovation Award in 1992.
Felleisen served as the program chair of the IEEE Symp. on Logic in
Computer Science in 1993 and as the general chair in 1994-7. During 1995-6,
he was a co-director of the DIMACS Special Year on Logic and Algorithms. 
He chaired the steering commitee of the Federated Logic Conference in 1996
and 1999.  His current focus is the connection between finite-model theory
and constraint-satisfaction problems in AI.

Over the last 20 years, Felleisen has published over 100 articles, including 
35 invited papers. He has served on over 40 conference program committees,
including nine ACM conferences. He has organized two DIMACS workshops and 
two Dagstuhl workshops.  He is the editor of six international journals 
and has edited five special journal issues. Felleisen served on external review
committess at Syracuse University, Vanderbilt University, Pace University,
and Stanford University.  He has served on the ACM Kanellakis Award 
Committee since its inception in 1996. In 1999, he organized a AAAS 
Symposium titled "On the unusual effectiveness of logic in Computer 
science".  Felleisen has given given over 200 public lectures, including about
45 invited talks in conferences and workshops, as well as about a dozen 
of talks to the general public about the information revolution.

